ROSA FLORES HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: THIS WORLD WAR II
ERA PLANE CRASHED OFF THE COAST
OF MASSACHUSETTS IN 1947.
FOR MORE THAN 50 YEARS, IT
REMAINED LOST ON THE BOTTOM OF
THE OCEAN.
OVER A DECADE AGO, AN AUV, AN
AUTONOMOUS UNDERWATER VEHICLE,
DISCOVERED THE MISSING PLANE.
>> COMING UP.
>> HAVING THE RIGHT TOOL IS
ALWAYS THE BEST CASE THAT YOU'RE
LOOK FOR.
>> Reporter: HYDROID MAKES THE
REMUS FAMILY OF AUVs.
THIS IS THE REMUS 600.
A LARGER AUV, THE REMUS 6000
FOUND AIR FRANCE FLIGHT 447 IN
2011.
MIKE MULROONEY WAS A SENIOR
FIELD TECHNICIAN ON THAT
MISSION.
>> AT THE END OF THE DAY WE KNEW
WHAT WE WERE DOING WAS TO TRY TO
HELP PEOPLE ANSWER QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED TO THAT
FLIGHT.
>> Reporter: THE REMUS 6000 CAN
NAVIGATE IN WATERS ALMOST 5,000
DEEPER THAN THE BLUEFIN 21,
WHICH IS CURRENTLY BEING USED IN
THE SEARCH FOR MALAYSIA FLIGHT
370.
AFTER THE REMUS AUVs USE SIDE
SCAN SONAR TO MAP THE OCEAN
FLOOR, THEY USUALLY COME BACK
WITH WHAT IS CALLED LOW
FREQUENCY IMAGES.
THESE ARE PICTURES IT TOOK OF
THE SUBMERGED PLANE IN
MASSACHUSETTS.
>> AND THIS SHOWS UP AS
DIFFERENT FROM THE SURROUNDING
AREA, INDICATING THAT THERE IS
SOMETHING ON THE BOTTOM FOR US
TO GO LOOK AT.
>> Reporter: BUT TAKE A LOOK AT
THESE IMAGES TAKEN AT A HIGHER
FREQUENCY.
>> YOU CAN CLEARLY SEE THE BODY
OF THE PLANE, THE TWO WINGS.
>> Reporter: SO WHY ISN'T THE
REMUS 6000 IN THE INDIAN OCEAN
RIGHT NOW IN THE NAVY TELLS CNN
THAT WHEN SEARCHERS ASKED THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT FOR AN AUV, THE
BLUEFIN-21 WAS THE ONLY DEEP
WATER VEHICLE IT HAD AVAILABLE,
WHICH RAISES THE QUESTION IS THE
BEST EQUIPMENT BEING USED TO
LOOK FOR THE